[ADD] sales: gelato integration (#12001)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/gelato.rst

Copy the generated API key using :guilabel:`Copy to Clipboard`.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-api-key.png
   :alt: Newly generated API key in the Gelato platform.

.. important::
   Copy the API key and store it somewhere safe and secure before leaving this page. Once the page
   is refreshed or exited, the key will not be available to copy.

   If the key cannot be copied or is lost, return to the :guilabel:`API key` page and start over,
   creating a new API key.

Webhook
~~~~~~~

A webhook is an automated notification system that instantly updates Odoo when Gelato processes,
ships, or delivers an order, ensuring real-time tracking and minimal manual intervention.

To create a webhook, go to :menuselection:`Developer --> Webhooks` under the :guilabel:`Developer`
drop-down menu in the left menu bar. In the new page, click :guilabel:`Add Webhook` to open a
:guilabel:`Create Webhook` form.

The webhook form requires several specific configurations:

- :guilabel:`URL`: This tells Gelato where to send the order updates in Odoo. Copy and paste the
  Odoo database URL with the additional suffix `/gelato/webhook`.

  .. example::

>      `https://stealthywood.odoo.com/odoo/gelato/webhook`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     `https://stealthywood.odoo.com/gelato/webhook`
```

:icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` menu icon. Click the menu icon, then click
:guilabel:`Copy Template ID` to copy the product template ID to the clipboard.

.. seealso::
   `Start selling products with Gelato: Quick & easy setup
   <https://www.gelato.com/blog/get-started-with-gelato-creating-products>`_

Odoo Sales product
------------------

To create a product in Odoo that matches the Gelato one, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app -->
Products --> Products`, select :guilabel:`New` to create a new product form. Type in the product
:guilabel:`Name`, then navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales` tab. Find the :guilabel:`Gelato` section,
then click into the :guilabel:`Template Reference` field and paste the copied template ID from the
Gelato product. Finally, click :guilabel:`Synchronize`.

Successful synchronization pulls the Gelato product variant options into the newly configured Odoo
product.

In the new :guilabel:`Print Images` field, click the :guilabel:`default` marker to set a default
product image. Click the :icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`(edit)` icon and select the product image file
to upload, then :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

.. important::

>    The :guilabel:`Print Images` field *must* be configured on the product before it can be ordered.

Reviewer: This is already correct, but it might be worth emphasizing that all product images must be set. In the first paragraph it sounds like only the `default` one must be configured.

pricing, etc.

Order a Gelato product from Odoo
--------------------------------

Once synchronized, Gelato products are available to order in Odoo through :doc:`sales quotations
<send_quotations>` or on the **eCommerce** store. Gelato delivery options are automatically
synchronized upon API and webhook configuration.

To add Gelato delivery, click :guilabel:`Add shipping` on the sales order. Select
:guilabel:`Standard Delivery` or :guilabel:`Express Delivery` in the :guilabel:`Shipping Method`
field, then click :guilabel:`Get rate`.

Once the quotation is confirmed, it becomes an active sales order, and the order is sent to Gelato
for fulfillment. Once a sales order is sent from Odoo to Gelato, Gelato processes the order,
produces the product at the nearest fulfillment center, and ships it directly to the end-customer.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`send_quotations/create_quotations`

.. important::
   When creating a sales order for Gelato products in the database, only Gelato products can be
   added to the same sales order. Multivendor orders are not available with the Gelato connector at

>    this time.

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion on this but I'm not sure if it's worth mentioning a behavior that is enforced and made pretty clear already in Odoo.

.. important::
   For **eCommerce** orders, deliver methods must be manually published on the website for them to

>    appear at checkout.

Reviewer: I'd remove this because
1. Gelato delivery methods should already be published by default.
2. This is the same behavior as for any other delivery method.

informed about order updates.

Configuration
=============

Before installing the Gelato Connector in Odoo, first create a new API key in the Gelato platform.

Configure API Keys and Webhooks in Gelato
-----------------------------------------

To install the Gelato module, first obtain API credentials and webhooks from Gelato.

In the menu bar on your Gelato account, click on :guilabel:`Developer` to open the drop-down menu.
From here, click on :guilabel:`API keys`. In the new page, click the :guilabel:`ADD API Key` button
to open a new API key form. Type in a name, then click :guilabel:`Create Key`.

This generates a new API key. Select all and copy, or click :guilabel:`Copy to Clipboard`.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-api-key.png
   :alt: Newly generated API key in the Gelato platform.

.. important::
   Copy the API key and store on a notepad before leaving this page. Once you refresh or leave new
   API key form, the key will not be available to copy.

   If you are not able to copy the key or lose it, simply return to the :guilabel:`API key` page and
   start over, creating a new API key.

> To create a webhook, click on :guilabel:`Webhooks` in the menu bar. In the new page, click

Reviewer 2: Can we briefly explain what a webhook does before jumping into the setup steps?

:guilabel:`Add Webhook` to open a :guilabel:`Create Webhook` form.

The webhook form requires several specific configurations:

- :guilabel:`URL`: Copy and paste your Odoo database URL with the additional suffix "/gelato/webhook
  ".
- :guilabel:`Events`: Click into the field and select :guilabel:`order_status_updated`.
- :guilabel:`Method`: Click into the field and select :guilabel:`HTTP Post`.
- Tick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`I want to take Authorization to this webhook`
- :guilabel:`Header Name`: In this field, type in "signature" to match the field in Odoo.

> - Click :guilabel:`Generate Key` to generate a :guilabel:`Header Value`.

Reviewer 2: This webhooks section is interesting! 

Although the current version tells the user what they need to do to set it up, we can add a bit more context to explain why a webhook is needed or how it works in relation to Odoo and Gelato. Also, the current content lists the required settings but doesn’t explain why they’re needed.

Here are the things I'd add:
- Add a short introduction that defines what a webhook does and why setting it up is important for real-time order synchronization. Please refer to this [article](https://www.techtarget.com/searchapparchitecture/tip/Webhooks-explained-simply-and-how-they-differ-from-an-API) to learn about the definition
- Add a short explanation for each field to help users understand their purpose. For example:
  -  URL: This tells Gelato where to send the order updates in Odoo.
  - Method: HTTP POST is used to send data from Gelato to Odoo.
  - Events: Selecting order_status_updated ensures Odoo receives order changes automatically.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-webhook.png
   :alt: Newly configured webhook in the Gelato platform.

Click :guilabel:`Create` to complete this webhook configuration.

.. tip::
   Copy and paste the API key and webhook on a notepad before tabbing out of the Gelato webpage as
   backup.

Install Gelato Connector in Odoo
--------------------------------

In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`, then scroll to the
:guilabel:`Connectors` section. Enable the :guilabel:`Gelato` connector by ticking the checkbox.
Next, paste the newly generated API keys and Webhook secret key into their respective fields. Once
saved, the Gelato Connector will be available in Odoo **Sales** and **eCommerce** products.

Synchronizing Gelato Products with Odoo Sales
=============================================

> It is recommended to have products readily configured in Gelato before configuring them in Odoo. In

Reviewer 2: More context before jumping into instructions.

How about something like
To get the product ID in Gelato to copy over to Odoo later,

the Gelato, navigate to the :guilabel:`Templates` page from the side bar. Select which product to
synchronize in Odoo, then hover over the product card to reveal the three-dot menu. Click the menu
icon, then click :guilabel:`Copy Template ID` to copy the product template ID to your clipboard.

.. seealso::
   `Gelato Product Documentation
   <https://www.gelato.com/blog/get-started-with-gelato-creating-products>`_

Odoo Sales Product
------------------

> In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`, select New to create a

Reviewer 2: > New

guilabel

> In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`, select New to create a

Reviewer 2: Let's give a little bit more context as to what we're doing before jumping into instructions. How about something like
```suggestion
To create a product in Odoo that matches the Gelato one, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`, select New to create a
```

new product form. Type in the product :guilabel:`Name`, then navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales` tab.
Find the :guilabel:`Gelato` field, then click into the :guilabel:`Template Reference` field and
paste the copied template ID from your Gelato product. Finally, click :guilabel:`Synchronize`.

Successful synchronization pulls the Gelato product variant options into the newly configured Odoo
product.

In the new :guilabel:`Print Images` field, click the :guilabel:`default` marker to set a default

> product image. Click the :icon:`fa-pencil` icon and select the product image file to upload, then

Reviewer 2: Remember to add a descriptor in guilabel after the icon!

> Click the :icon:`fa-pencil` icon

:guilabel:`Save & Close`.

Product variants
----------------

To view and edit the newly synchronized product variants, navigate to the
:guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab, which will have the variants pulled from the Gelato product
configuration. Click the :guilabel:`Configure` button to edit and configure the variant images,
delivery methods, additional pricing, etc.

Order a Gelato Product from Odoo
--------------------------------

Once synchronized, Gelato products are available to order in Odoo through :doc:`sales quotations
<send_quotations>` or on the **eCommerce** website store. Gelato delivery options are automatically
synchronized upon API and webhook configuration.

To add Gelato delivery, click :guilabel:`Add shipping` on the sales order. Select
:guilabel:`Standard Delivery` or :guilabel:`Express Delivery` in the :guilabel:`Shipping Method`
field, then click :guilabel:`Get rate`.

Once the quotation is confirmed, it becomes an active sales order, and the order is sent to Gelato

> for fulfillment.

Reviewer 2: > for fulfillment.

Does this mean that Gelato will handle processing the order? I think you can elaborate a bit more here

   If you are not able to copy the key or lose it, simply return to the :guilabel:`API key` page and
   start over, creating a new API key.

To create a webhook, click on :guilabel:`Webhooks` in the menu bar. In the new page, click
:guilabel:`Add Webhook` to open a :guilabel:`Create Webhook` form.

The webhook form requires several specific configurations:

- :guilabel:`URL`: Copy and paste your Odoo database URL with the additional suffix "/gelato/webhook
  ".
- :guilabel:`Events`: Click into the field and select :guilabel:`order_status_updated`.
- :guilabel:`Method`: Click into the field and select :guilabel:`HTTP Post`.
- Tick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`I want to take Authorization to this webhook`
- :guilabel:`Header Name`: In this field, type in "signature" to match the field in Odoo.
- Click :guilabel:`Generate Key` to generate a :guilabel:`Header Value`.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-webhook.png
   :alt: Newly configured webhook in the Gelato platform.

Click :guilabel:`Create` to complete this webhook configuration.

Install Gelato Connector in Odoo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> Sales --> Connectors`. Enable the

> :guilabel:`Gelato` connector by ticking the checkbox. Next, paste the newly generated API keys and

Reviewer 2: Please follow the standard workflow when navigating to the settings page, from an app. 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/96a04884-1f1b-479e-99b9-f300a766acb9)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc97e5b4-d22c-46c2-8b43-a93f580e177d)

Remember that menuselection only applies to menus, and when referring to section names, we use guilabels.

See example in content guidelines: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/18.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#menu-selection

Webhook secret key into their respective fields. Once saved, the Gelato Connector will be available
in Odoo **Sales** and **eCommerce** products.

Synchronizing Gelato Products with Odoo Sales
---------------------------------------------

It is recommended to have products readily configured in Gelato before configuring them in Odoo. In
the Gelato, navigate to the :guilabel:`Templates` page from the side bar. Select which product to

> syncrhonize in Odoo, then hover over the product card to reveal the three-dot menu. Click the menu

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
synchronize in Odoo, then hover over the product card to reveal the three-dot menu. Click the menu
```

icon, then click :guilabel:`Copy Template ID` to copy the product template ID to your clipboard.

.. seealso::
   `Gelato Product Documentation
   <https://www.gelato.com/blog/get-started-with-gelato-creating-products>`_

Odoo Sales Product
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales --> Products --> Products`, select New to create a new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`, select New to create a new
```
And remember to use the guilabel tag for "New"!

   backup.

Install Gelato connector in Odoo
--------------------------------

In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`, then scroll to the
:guilabel:`Connectors` section. Enable the :guilabel:`Gelato` connector by ticking the checkbox.
Next, paste the newly generated API keys and Webhook secret key into their respective fields. Once
saved, Gelato is available in Odoo **Sales** and **eCommerce** products.

Synchronizing Gelato products with Odoo Sales
=============================================

It is recommended to have products readily configured in Gelato before configuring them in Odoo. To
get the product ID in Gelato, navigate to the :guilabel:`Templates` page from the side bar menu.
Select which product to synchronize in Odoo, then hover over the product card to reveal the
three-dot menu. Click the menu icon, then click :guilabel:`Copy Template ID` to copy the product
template ID to your clipboard.

.. seealso::
   `Gelato Product Documentation
   <https://www.gelato.com/blog/get-started-with-gelato-creating-products>`_

Odoo Sales Product
------------------

> To create a product in Odoo that matches the Gelato one, navigate to ::menuselection:`Sales app -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a product in Odoo that matches the Gelato one, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app -->
```

Gelato
======

Gelato is a global print-on-demand platform that integrates with Odoo to sync product catalogs and
automate order fulfillment.

Connecting Gelato's services with Odoo's **Sales** and **eCommerce** apps enables the following:

- Sync Odoo sales orders with Gelato for automated order fulfillment
- Create and manage Gelato products within Odoo; supports product variant and image sync
- Configure delivery options in Odoo and receive order updates via webhooks.

Configuration
=============

.. important::

>    The company information (Company Name and Billing address) in the Gelato account *must* match the
>    company information in the Odoo database in order for sales orders to be confirmed and sent to
>    Gelato for fulfillment.

Reviewer 3: Adjust formatting and capitalization to match the referenced UI text
```suggestion
   The company information (*Company name* and *Billing address*) in the Gelato account *must* match
   the company information in the Odoo database in order for sales orders to be confirmed and sent
   to Gelato for fulfillment.
```

   .. image:: gelato/gelato-company.png
      :alt: Company information in Gelato.

   .. image:: gelato/odoo-company.png
      :alt: Company information in Odoo.

> Configure API Keys and Webhooks in Gelato

Reviewer 3: Please use sentence case for headings :)
```suggestion
Configure API keys and webhooks in Gelato
```

-----------------------------------------

Before configuring the Gelato connector in Odoo, first obtain API credentials and webhooks from the
Gelato account.

API connectors enable Odoo **Sales** to send and receive data from Gelato for order processing,
while webhooks provide real-time updates on order status and shipment tracking.

API Key
~~~~~~~

> An API Key is a unique authentication token that allows Odoo to securely communicate with Gelato’s

Reviewer 3: Use a _normal_ quote instead of a smart quote `'`
```suggestion
An API Key is a unique authentication token that allows Odoo to securely communicate with Gelato's
```

API, enabling order transmission, status updates, and data synchronization.

After logging into Gelato, click :icon:`fa-code` :guilabel:`Developer` in the left menu bar. From
here, click on :guilabel:`API keys`. In the new page, click the :guilabel:`Add API Key` button to
open a new API key form. Type in a name, then click :guilabel:`Create Key`.

Copy the generated API key using :guilabel:`Copy to Clipboard`.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-api-key.png
   :alt: Newly generated API key in the Gelato platform.

.. important::

>    Copy the API key and store on a notepad before leaving this page. Once the page is refreshed or
>    exited, the key will not be available to copy.

Reviewer 3: Best to advise keeping API keys somewhere secure rather than a plain text notepad :)
```suggestion
   Copy the API key and store it somewhere safe and secure before leaving this page. Once the page
   is refreshed or exited, the key will not be available to copy.
```

   If the key cannot be copied or is lost, return to the :guilabel:`API key` page and start over,
   creating a new API key.

Webhook
~~~~~~~

A webhook is an automated notification system that instantly updates Odoo when Gelato processes,
ships, or delivers an order, ensuring real-time tracking and minimal manual intervention.

To create a webhook, go to :menuselection:`Developer --> Webhooks` under the :guilabel:`Developer`
drop-down menu in the left menu bar. In the new page, click :guilabel:`Add Webhook` to open a
:guilabel:`Create Webhook` form.

The webhook form requires several specific configurations:

- :guilabel:`URL`: This tells Gelato where to send the order updates in Odoo. Copy and paste the
  Odoo database URL with the additional suffix `/gelato/webhook`.

>   .. example::
>    `https://stealthywood.odoo.com/odoo/gelato/webhook`

Reviewer 3: Fix indent ;)
```suggestion
  .. example::
     `https://stealthywood.odoo.com/odoo/gelato/webhook`
```

- :guilabel:`Events`: Click into the field and select :guilabel:`order_status_updated`. Selecting
  :guilabel:`order_status_updated` ensures Odoo receives order changes automatically.
- :guilabel:`Method`: Click into the field and select the :guilabel:`HTTP Post` option, as this is

>    the request method used to send data from Gelato to Odoo.

Reviewer 4: This rendered strangely in the HTML 🤔 
I can't pinpoint the reason, though...the syntax seems to be fine?

![Screenshot 2025-02-14 at 11 22 21 AM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4a4b742f-b6b5-451b-86d9-9834d153ef1a)

Reviewer 3: This is rendering as a [definition list](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#definition-lists) due to the one-space indent on the second line :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Method`: Click into the field and select the :guilabel:`HTTP Post` option, as this is
  the request method used to send data from Gelato to Odoo.
```

- Tick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`I want to take Authorization to this webhook`.
- :guilabel:`Header Name`: In this field, type in `signature` to match the field in Odoo.
- Click :guilabel:`Generate Key` to generate a :guilabel:`Header Value`.
- Click :guilabel:`Create` to complete this webhook configuration.

.. image:: gelato/gelato-webhook.png
   :alt: Newly configured webhook in the Gelato platform.

.. tip::
   Copy and paste the API key and webhook on a notepad before tabbing out of the Gelato webpage as
   backup.

Configure Gelato connector in Odoo
----------------------------------

In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`, then scroll to the
:guilabel:`Connectors` section. Enable the :guilabel:`Gelato` connector by ticking the checkbox.

> Next, paste the newly generated API keys and Webhook secret key into their respective fields. Once

Reviewer 3: No need to capitalize "webhook"
```suggestion
Next, paste the newly generated API keys and webhook secret key into their respective fields. Once
```

saved, Gelato is available in Odoo **Sales** and **eCommerce** products.

Synchronizing Gelato products with Odoo Sales
=============================================

It is recommended to have products already configured in Gelato before configuring them in Odoo. To
get the product ID in Gelato, navigate to the :guilabel:`Templates` page from the side bar menu.
Select which product to synchronize in Odoo, then hover over the product card to reveal the
:icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` menu icon. Click the menu icon, then click
:guilabel:`Copy Template ID` to copy the product template ID to the clipboard.

.. seealso::
   `Start selling products with Gelato: Quick & easy setup
   <https://www.gelato.com/blog/get-started-with-gelato-creating-products>`_

> Odoo Sales Product

Reviewer 3: Sentence case heading
```suggestion
Odoo Sales product
```

------------------

To create a product in Odoo that matches the Gelato one, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app -->
Products --> Products`, select :guilabel:`New` to create a new product form. Type in the product
:guilabel:`Name`, then navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales` tab. Find the :guilabel:`Gelato` section,
then click into the :guilabel:`Template Reference` field and paste the copied template ID from the
Gelato product. Finally, click :guilabel:`Synchronize`.

Successful synchronization pulls the Gelato product variant options into the newly configured Odoo
product.

In the new :guilabel:`Print Images` field, click the :guilabel:`default` marker to set a default
product image. Click the :icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`(edit)` icon and select the product image file
to upload, then :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

.. important::

>    The `Print Images` field *must* be configured on the product before it can be ordered.

Reviewer 3: I believe this should use guilabel formatting? 
```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Print Images` field *must* be configured on the product before it can be ordered.
```

Product variants
----------------

> To view and edit the newly synchronized product variants, navigate to the
> :guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab, which will have the variants pulled from the Gelato product
> configuration. Click the :guilabel:`Configure` button to edit and configure the variant images,
> delivery methods, additional pricing, etc.

Reviewer 3: Fix early line break
```suggestion
To view and edit the newly synchronized product variants, navigate to the :guilabel:`Attributes &
Variants` tab, which will have the variants pulled from the Gelato product configuration. Click the
:guilabel:`Configure` button to edit and configure the variant images, delivery methods, additional
pricing, etc.
```

> Order a Gelato Product from Odoo

Reviewer 3: Sentence case heading :)
```suggestion
Order a Gelato product from Odoo
```

then click into the :guilabel:`Template Reference` field and paste the copied template ID from your
Gelato product. Finally, click :guilabel:`Synchronize`.

Successful synchronization pulls the Gelato product variant options into the newly configured Odoo
product.

In the new :guilabel:`Print Images` field, click the :guilabel:`default` marker to set a default
product image. Click the :icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`(edit)` icon and select the product image file
to upload, then :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

.. important::
   The `Print Images` field *must* be configured on the product before it can be ordered.

Product variants
----------------

To view and edit the newly synchronized product variants, navigate to the
:guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab, which will have the variants pulled from the Gelato product
configuration. Click the :guilabel:`Configure` button to edit and configure the variant images,
delivery methods, additional pricing, etc.

Order a Gelato Product from Odoo
--------------------------------

Once synchronized, Gelato products are available to order in Odoo through :doc:`sales quotations

> <send_quotations>` or on the **eCommerce** website store. Gelato delivery options are automatically

Reviewer 4: redundant, I think
```suggestion
<send_quotations>` or on the **eCommerce** store. Gelato delivery options are automatically
```
